[Applause]
[Music]
what is up everybody welcome to a very
special edition of our amma series these
are crushing thank you guys so much so
we're doing them we're gonna make it a
thing this is gonna be a weekly shebang
so thank you guys for joining us and
we're now live on Facebook and YouTube
which is awesome and the numbers the
last time we did mute our Facebook wow
I'm having a stroke it's a holiday
Friday bear with me
the last time we did YouTube live we did
way better than we expected so that was
really really exciting so I'm honored to
have you guys here we're gonna dive
right into questions what makes this
Emma I think work is very rapid-fire
answers to the questions gonna try to
get through as many as humanly possible
and if this is adding value to your life
please do share it I don't know if you
can share on YouTube we floated that out
there last time nobody has figured that
out so if anybody hey if you know how to
do it let us know but certainly on
facebook if you share this that would be
amazing
growing the community is really what
we're focused on and if you don't know
why drop in a question and my boy chase
will pull it and I will answer that but
otherwise I will assume that you
understand exactly why we're trying to
build this community all right
question number one comes from Santos
Conde a leader is somebody that is
painting division and organization
everybody in galvanizing them around the
belief system and the path execution
doesn't feel like a question that's a
quote okay here we go
so with stuff like that if it's gonna be
contextual like let me know context : or
something like that okay so here we go
this is the multi stage question I would
like to know if you can go more in depth
on this quote what was your line of
thoughts at the moment of writing okay
so I think somebody was asking me to
define what leadership is and basically
that is at a high level one of the most
important things that a leader is gonna
do is really painting the vision for
where you're going why do you exist
what's the mission of the company and
exactly how we're gonna get there and
it's that galvanizing idea it's that
very clear end goal it's the
intoxication of certainty those are the
things that a leader needs to provide to
the people on the team so that everybody
is marching in the same direction
and I cannot tell you how rapidly people
begin to fragment and go in weird
directions if you're not freakishly
clear on what the end goal of the
company is and even for you as the
leader if you don't understand exactly
where you're trying to get to if you
don't have a psychotically clear goal
it's all going to begin to fragment
because the clarity the mission those
are the things that become the filter
for your business they become the filter
for your actions they become the filter
for how you spend your time so it has
been said that 80% of business is
knowing what not to do so it's the
things that you stay out of that become
really really important so if that's
true and you have to know what to say
no to then really understanding what
your mission is having that clarity
being able to get people pointed in that
same direction which is what I mean by
galvanize them like that becomes
critical and then the sort of softer
thing that becomes very difficult to
quantify but is insanely important is do
you get the emotional buy-in from your
team in terms of what you're trying to
accomplish now I think we're living
through one of the most fascinating
times in entrepreneurship in business in
society quite frankly because the
consumer now has the ability to really
get to know the company the people
behind it their mission what they stand
for and what it means to support them
with your dollars so because of that
like companies are really having to go
beyond just speaking through the product
and really talking to what's the purpose
why are we here and that is having
clarity there is how you get the
emotional buy-in of your team because
now there's a purpose there's meaning
behind what you do it isn't just making
the money it's really the product
hopefully facilitates something whether
that's a change you're trying to see in
the world you know whatever that thing
is really gives people the ability to
understand very directly how what they
do on a day to day basis to make the
company stronger is bringing meaning and
value and because meaning and purpose
are two of the five fundamental drivers
that people have like really giving them
that through line to connect that is
absolutely critical of a leader which I
will differentiate from a manager that
would be a whole
different question I won't go into that
okay a company vision should reflect a
long-term goal is there more questions
in here no all right so on to the next
okay this is from a DM is this from my
account yeah it was very clever
alright which one of these is the actual
question the last one all right so here
we go as soon as we have it on-screen
that's up there we go okay I asked the
question about if you're not
entrepreneurial how do you go about
becoming a great number two great number
two to fifty so somewhere in there and
also selling to the unsellable ie
overcoming apathy perhaps I typed it in
the wrong place I asked during the 1
a.m. Q&A session ok so the rest of this
context alright so basically how do you
become a great number 2 through 50 those
are arbitrary numbers but basically if
you're not going to be an entrepreneur
if you're not gonna be the one where
everything is sitting on your shoulders
how do you become a linchpin which is a
term introduced by Seth Godin in his
amazing book linchpin I highly recommend
you read that and this by the way just
the law of numbers states that the vast
majority of the world are not going to
be the entrepreneur they're not going to
be the CEO they're going to be somewhere
else in the organization so
understanding that being the
entrepreneur is not about what is better
it's simply a role and if that role
speaks to you if you don't mind massive
amounts of risk if you like having all
of the performance weight on your
shoulders it's actually a really really
fun place to be and a fatahna me is like
your sole driver like for me realizing
that autonomy is one of like my absolute
biggest drivers then being in that
position can be immensely immensely
rewarding if you're gonna be in another
role it's still an amazing opportunity
to really put your skill set to find out
how much you can do and contribute to an
organization to see how much of your
potential you can turn into actuated
potential and really crush it but it
comes down to again clarity of goals so
what is your role what are the goals of
your role what are you trying to do in
the company and how can you become the
best in the world at that that concept
to me is so import
like what do you want to become the best
in the world that there is a job out
there there is a role out there for
which if you invest and really put
yourself into becoming truly the best in
the world and whether you ever
accomplish that is is quite frankly
irrelevant but if you're making sincere
strides to become the best in the world
that that position you're going to be
startled by one how fun it is because a
fundamental building block to
happinesses progress so it's getting
better at something and then the whole
concept of techne where when a skill set
that you have fought very hard to
acquire has use for other people that is
fulfillment so those things combined
making progress getting better at
something and knowing that the thing
you're getting better at actually serves
other people that's the magic like that
is the thing that thing that you're
hunting for in your life that happiness
that isn't so fleeting that lasts longer
nothing lasts forever but that has a
deeper sense of meaning well-being and
stays for a longer period of time it is
really the intersection of those two
things so figuring out what that role is
and then going about acquiring those
skills and really looking at the company
and saying what are the problems that
we're facing as a company and how in my
role can I make those go away and then
I'll say just another thing no matter
who you're trying to be in the company
help other people shine help other
people shine like if you're that person
if you're the person no matter what your
role is no matter where you're at in the
company if you're helping other people
be great at their job they're gonna want
to help you it creates an awesome
environment where people feel good
around each other they can trust each
other go back and watch the clip from
Vanessa van Edwards about frenemies
which I don't think she used that word
anybody remember what word she does she
called it something ambivalent
relationships thank you you can always
count on agent Smith all right
ambivalent relationships also known as
frenemies how just deadly those are so
go back and watch that that's super
powerful and when you're supporting each
other you minimize if not eliminate
frenemies alright is this new alright
hey Tom I was listening to one of your
AMA podcast and my wife and we noticed
that people really only ask you about
quest nutrition and how you started it
but we
think it's a more interesting question
is how did you start the tech company
without the personal skills that I know
of with nothing to start and yet make it
successful we are itching to know
all right sadly I haven't been reading
who these are coming from that would be
great we need to add that in the future
so alright see the real run which I am
sure I'm messing that up that's a
username which makes it even harder ok
so the tech company which by the way was
awareness technologies let me take a
tasty beverage here awareness
technologies
I was hired as a copywriter so that
whole transition is very important to
understand that all of my inadequacies
at that point we're being carried
entirely by my partner so they
understood business very very well
they'd been out the game for a very long
time they brought me in as a copywriter
and they said look don't think of
yourself as a copywriter understand this
is a startup you can have any position
in the company that you want you just
have to become the right person for the
job
meaning you've got to acquire those
skills you've got to get so good we
can't ignore you you've got to be better
than anybody else that's competing to
take on that responsibility but if you
can do that then you can earn your way
to that position and I was so hungry to
succeed that I was just on a relentless
I was on a warpath to acquire skills an
absolute [__] warpath and that is how
I encourage everyone to be in your life
no matter what it is that you're trying
to do if you're not on a warpath if
you're not going so hard that other
people in your life are looking at you
like you're an absolute madman you're
just not going hard enough you're not
acquiring the skills fast enough you're
not putting enough energy into it to
really get great to surpass other people
so obviously that doesn't not
everybody's gonna want that life but for
people who are really trying to be
playing a world stage and have success
at the highest level but that's just it
period there's no other path set the bar
ridiculously high and surpass all
expectations that's it so I was on a
warpath to do that to get better I was
reading I was studying I was doing
anything and everything that I could to
get better I was finding ways to add
value so I didn't know enough about
business but I found that people would
there would be so many opportunities
that people
start to forget about them so I started
keeping a list of all the opportunities
and reminding people and saying hey what
about this we moving on that are we
discarding it and so I would come to
let's say a conference call and I would
have notes on the last time that we were
talking and what we were trying to move
forward so that I was sort of the
context giver because I wasn't gonna be
able to at that point my career wasn't
gonna be able to say hey based on
experience this is what I think we
should do I was total sponge mode but I
knew that I could bring value by taking
notes by knowing where things were by
pushing projects for it by being the
energy by identifying the right answer I
mean you hear all of this stuff in the
way that I speak now and this is really
when I began to put all this together
but realizing that I wasn't always gonna
be right but I could identify the right
answer and I could say okay I can see
that that's really gonna be useful so
and then put my energy behind that so
being the energy being the context
understanding what needs to be move
forward those are are really the tools
that I use to begin to climb my way up
and then being on a warpath to acquire
new skills so doing that for a very very
long time I was about eight and a half
years before we finally sold the tech
company so doing that for about eight
and a half years getting better every
day taking on more responsibilities and
that's another thing by the way taking
on responsibilities had nothing to do
with being a copywriter nothing to do
with being a copywriter but I could see
that the company had problems struggles
things that needed to be addressed and I
was just trying to take on as much as
humanly possible so that I would become
the person that people would turn to so
and then in all of this I'm I am so
after I made the realization about what
you build your self esteem around
matters which is an answer for another
time I began to actually get better and
better every day always willing to look
at where I was bad and inadequate and
improve upon that skill set and so just
over time I was able to get good so
alright next question from Karthik aya
Rawat how do you how to deal with
negative people that always find
negative things in your ideas and are
suspicious of anything new just want to
live and die like everyone before them
okay so first and foremost you have to
have a belief system that's going to
inoculate you from this stuff so
one of the pieces of my belief system I
only do and believe that which moves me
towards my goals so when people attack
me I one separate the message from the
messenger so if the messenger is a
[__] but the message is actually
usable then I'm just gonna take that
regardless of whether it hits me
emotionally and becomes an emotionally
difficult moment I'm gonna set that
aside also using that same thing of
doing believe that which moves you
towards your goals if feeling that
emotional sting serves me then I'm gonna
feel it but I'm only gonna feel it for
as long as it serves me so if it's
pushing me it's driving me to go get a
better skillset to listen to that piece
of information and say okay this really
stings and it really hurts to hear this
but it's now pointed out a flaw in my
game now that I've identified it I can
go acquire that skill and because I've
built my self-esteem around identifying
the right answer not worrying about
being right always willing to admit when
I'm wrong
not priding myself on being smart but
instead priding myself and being the
learner it that sting becomes very
short-lived and I only allow myself to
feel it for as long as it's useful and
then I can just discard it right so and
I can discard it because what they're
probably trying to do by well Jesus that
actually gets complicated so it's
entirely possible to actually trying to
protect you and that they're doing it
out of love which is ironically where
most of the negative feedback in your
life is gonna come from but if they're
actively trying to tear me down
understanding that that's just a losing
long-term strategy doing and bleeding
that which moves you towards your goals
so it's like whether they're trying to
hurt me or not is irrelevant I'm gonna
separate the message from the messenger
I'm gonna take what's useful I'm gonna
feel this thing and only as long as it's
usable and then I'm gonna move forward
so I have nothing but empathy and
compassion for people that go on the
attack for people that want to hurt and
damage other people it comes from a
place of weakness it comes from a place
of insecurity don't fool yourself they
actually do feel better when they say it
so if your soothing yourself by saying
that oh you know like yes it does come
from insecurity but it actually does
make them feel better I find it very
interesting to delineate between that so
that I never try to pacify myself with
[__] and when people are beating you
down it actually does make them feel
better so your
have to find other ways it does come
from insecurity and knowing that
insecurity is a losing long-term
strategy that has helped me through some
of that too to set it off to the side
and not pay attention but really taking
the information no matter who it comes
from decide whether it's usable or not
if it is act on it if it's not discard
it all right this comes from YouTube
question from ein ARS whoo
aye NAR SWI NARS W something like that
alright here we go what kind of system
do you use for calendar I'm struggling
to find the system for me that works do
use physical apps or combine the two
this is where I just have to be honest
I'm atrocious at my calendar I'm
embarrassingly bad at managing my
calendar so I have a human being that
their job is to manage my calendar
that's probably a terrible answer for
everyone out there so unfortunately I'm
just not the right person to answer that
question alright YouTube question from
crazy youtuber with all your knowledge
what is the best time for fitness
morning or depending for everyone it
probably does depend for everyone but I
will say for most people if I had to
guess doing it first thing in the
morning is always going to be ideal
because you're gonna make sure that you
do it and prioritizing fitness and
getting the cognitive optimization which
should should serve you through the day
and John radies book spark he talks
about how there is a time effect of
working out so whatever you do
immediately following working out you're
gonna get the most benefit from so for
me the morning is the most important
part of the day so I work out
immediately partly because I will skip
it if given any reason whatsoever
because I absolutely hate it and then
the other is that my morning routine
carries all the like fundamental
building blocks of making sure that the
business is pointing in the right
direction
all of my high-level thinking is done in
the morning so knowing that I need to be
really on point for that working out in
the morning also serves that because it
leads right into that really really
important time alright YouTube question
from Robert Ballantine how do you write
an effective speech this is interesting
no one's ever asked me this before I
have just joined Toastmasters and would
love to write and execute on my first
talk to improve my communication skills
and help in escaping the matrix
this is fun for me okay so here's what I
would do first and foremost you need to
rush to getting to the point where you
trust your instincts now instincts are
built they're developed they are not
something that you're born with so a lot
of this is going to be whatever it is
that you're speaking on you need to make
sure you really [__] understand it so
that you've gone deep deep deep deep
deep and in that process of gaining
mastery you're going to develop your
instincts now in there somewhere you
will get to the point where you
understand it so well that your real
personality is gonna begin to shine
that's where things get [__]
interesting so finding your natural
style finding a way to really be that
quirky weird version of yourself like
that's when I feel like my speaking
really began to take flight is my
personality is such that I can go from
deadly serious to tongue-in-cheek and
funny in like a heartbeat that's really
me and so I can go on a rant and I can
get [__] deep and then I can click
over into like the wink and the nod and
at first I was embarrassed to do either
extreme I was embarrassed to be funny
because I felt like oh well people
really want me to stick to the material
and I was embarrassed to go like really
[__] hard and passionate because it's
like people are gonna think that I'm
crazy but once you realize that that is
your superpower and that really being
you is going to allow you to give a
speech that that nobody else is gonna be
able to give but knowing the material is
where I start now because I know my
material so [__] well I don't
memorize speeches so I'll walk into a
speech usually with three things that I
know that I want to cover if I'm doing
slides and that's really easy and if you
ever didn't see me do a speech with
slides like it actually feels a bit like
cheating because I don't have to hold so
many things in my head but I usually go
into a speech with three sort of top
line things that I want to do I never
memorize like certain lines or anything
so if I give the same speech 20 times
it'll be different all 20 times because
I'm going off the cuff just with that
general thing but that really is about
knowing thy topic so research the life
out of it practice practice practice
you're gonna get like there will be
phrases and things you begin to say when
you start really forcing yourself to do
the speech and a non-member
right away so do that practice do it
over and over and over if there are
multiple Toastmasters in your city do do
them all like if there are five and they
meet on different nights or even if they
meet on the same night but you can split
do one like be the first speaker at 1:00
in the last week or the other get out
there and speak as much as humanly
[__] possible like I just cannot
emphasize that enough the more you do
stuff the better you will get and the
thing that will separate you from
everyone else other people are gonna
speak once a week or three times a week
and feel like they're crushing it when
you can start speaking three times a day
seven days a week you'll maul everybody
all right this is from agent Smith I
think just as Jared Jared I know not you
different Jared all right so from a
different Jared we have a lot of people
in the feed talked about the belief
system go to the website learn tab sign
up and download the 25 poll points how
is that not from our Jared I was gonna
say this is all alive like are you are
you just trying to like make it seem
like someone's in the feeds and that's
it so how can when I said is that you
you shook your head no all right so all
right here we go go get the belief
system go to the website we have it it
is our it's the thing that you get when
you sign up for the newsletter we had it
all designed out nice and wonderfully so
go check it out sign up get them give
them 25 bullet points and if you guys
don't know by the way the belief system
is what I had to go through at the I
guess just on my journey to becoming an
entrepreneur to change my mindset to
escape the matrix so check it out
alright YouTube question from Antoine
fo-sho nice can we take a second to
respect that name how do you approach a
business concept if you lack the skill
to create said concept for example you
want to create an app but lack the
ability to script it other than learning
it well partners is going to be the
easiest way so there's two ways to
handle the need for a skill set in a
company one is to learn it yourself and
two is to partner with somebody or hire
somebody that has that usually most
startups don't have the fun
dancing to just throw money of the
problem so you're gonna have to partner
with somebody you're gonna be giving up
equity in the company in order to get
their attention to get them into the
company to bring that skillset to bear
so that is the simplest way all right
next YouTube question again is from
Daryl Dickens how do you explain
escaping the matrix to someone who has
not seen the movie like this escaping
the matrix is a metaphor for a limiting
belief system so beliefs that you hold
in your own mind about what's possible
about what you're capable of that is the
matrix so the the movie The Matrix is is
a story about belief and the main
character is able to do things only once
he believes that he can so that's really
what it's all about so what makes it the
perfect metaphor for life humans lead
with belief you're only able to do the
things you believe you can do because
once you believe that you can do it and
by the way it's not that you can already
execute against it like as a
nine-year-old you're not gonna believe
that you can play in the NFL you're
gonna believe that you can get to the
point where you can play in the NFL so
it's that belief that the work the
effort is going to yield the result that
you want and that will put you on the
path to learning and getting better so
that's how I explained it alright
YouTube question from game dev
underground hey Tom I'm curious if
you've ever interviewed someone that has
their life together but doesn't make a
ton of money
I noticed you tend to interview people
that make a lot of money that's
interesting I think if you went back
you'd realize that the vast majority of
people literally the vast majority I'm
gonna say it's less than 75% of the
people I've interviewed make a ton of
money so the money is easy and it
certainly gives you a hook into
explaining you not explaining but you
have a barometer for the success so you
can say hey this person told their
company for 50 million dollars or
whatever and it's instant credibility
maybe it shouldn't be but it is but yeah
I mean literally the people that I can
think off the top my head we have a ton
of people that I'm sure make a decent
living for Swasey but their primary
driver just isn't that they're not
interested in selling their company or
they're an author and they're yeah just
crushing it ideologically but not
necessarily making a lot of money so yes
many many all right Ben Widener what's
the Snapple cap save oh all right that's
Jack today's Snapple cap is human eyes
have over two million working parts that
doesn't seem possible
there you have it Snapple caps never lie
hashtag alright Daniel bro our boy Dan
bro Fitness what's up dude what ways
have you changed your diet and lifestyle
to improve your microbiome thank you for
that question I'm obsessed with the
microbiome I try not to bring it up in
every answer which you'd be surprised
how often I can do so my big thing has
been
I'll give you well so one if we were
talking about what we're doing with Lisa
that's way more complicated so I'll give
you my answer which is a lot more
simplistic I'm reducing the amount of
artificial sweeteners I am increasing
the number of vegetables that I eat and
I'm not washing them which I have I'm
somewhat conflicted about because I'm
not sure I need to get really serious
about finding out where they're grown
and like what pesticides might be on
them because I may be causing myself a
problem there but I'm trying to get dirt
in my life literally
dirt so and I also don't wash my hands
as much maybe that sounds bad but I used
to I used to wash my hands so much they
would begin to get chapped and crack and
bleed just to give you an idea how
[__] I was but reading about the way
that we actually get microbes into our
system I'm trying to get it as close to
like just natural as humanly possible
meaning back in the day when nothing was
processed you didn't have soap you got
dirty hands you picked up food you ate
it you pulled the carrot out of the
ground you brushed it off and you ate it
and inevitably you were getting a lot of
dirt and in the soils where a lot of the
microbes live so I'm literally trying to
get dirt into my life so my changes have
been relatively simple because I don't
struggle with symptoms from what they
called dysbiosis which is a messed up
microbiome doesn't mean I don't have one
it just means that I don't have a lot of
symptoms from it whereas Lisa it's much
more complicated and because I don't
feel like we've solved that problem I
can tell you what we're experimenting
with but nothing that I can really stand
behind other than enzymes enzymes have
been a big win for her so taking what's
called a pancreatin enzyme which helps
break down
fats carbohydrates and protein for a
long time we had our own one that just
broke down protein and I read in one of
the books on the microbiome I think the
disease delusion but don't hold me to
that about that so we tried it and that
that's had a real big impact alright
YouTube question from Gary Maggio please
an advice for 55 year old who needs to
make a change from cubicle to more
fulfilling career and make good money so
first of all I love the age range that
we have in this community is absolutely
unbelievable and how many people are in
a traditional age group where
advertisers don't even reach out to you
because they think you're so set in your
ways you're never gonna make any change
I think it's absolutely unbelievable how
many people realize how much time they
really have left to do something amazing
so for anybody 55 or otherwise the key
is to understand what are your interests
so you're gonna look inside you can see
small flickers of interest okay now that
we have an interest engage in that
interest and get it to the point where
you know whether you're truly fascinated
in it then you're gonna build that into
a passion by truly gaining mastery now
when you're doing that down a path that
you can monetize that's where things
really really get interesting
also if you're going to work at somebody
else's company you need to find out
what's the mission of the company what
do they stand for what are they trying
to bring to the world so that you can
see how your actions relate to something
that hopefully you care about and
understanding that especially if you're
looking for a job well you still have a
job you can be patient enough to find
something that really is a good fit and
that's selection is like the vast
majority of the battle I'll say that 80%
of getting this right is finding a
company that suits you that feels right
where the people and the culture feel
good where the mission of the company
aligns with something that you believe
in so that as you're working your ass
off to help bring these products to
market that it's something that actually
makes you feel really good about
yourself that there's a tangible result
that you can look into the world and see
the reflection back of all your efforts
that you want to see whatever that is
right it's nothing Universal about that
but that's how it's gonna work so it's
gonna be the fundamental building blocks
of happiness progress technique so
progress you're getting better at
something technique hey you've got the
skill set that
actually serving other people like that
will be very very meaningful and then if
it's in a universe of things that you
care about so whether that's hey if it's
video games awesome there's a universe
of video games you have to be a
professional player or found a video
game company or even be a coder but you
could be an amazing accountant in that
world and so the people that you're
interfacing with are people that are
designing games or doing something that
you find really really interesting so
that concept of universe of is is really
really important but it's really
aligning things with your interests
which become fascinations which become
passions like being in that world that's
that's really the key all right face
book nancy Voigt how do I find a company
that actually cares about their
employees I find that most corporations
and companies just value the mighty
dollar over the well-being of their
employees okay so there's two things
that I want to address in this one be
very very very careful about becoming
cynical so I get it there are a lot of
companies out there that suck and they
just either truly don't care or they
care but they don't know how to build it
into the culture which by the way is
harder than you think
so you need to go into this with the
attitude remember Einstein said the most
important decision anybody will ever
make is whether they live in a friendly
or a hostile universe it's a decision so
the most important decision in this case
that you're gonna make is whether there
are a lot of companies out in the world
that care about their employees and
really want beautiful things for them or
whether they don't exist if you believe
that they do I'm telling you all of a
sudden you're just gonna start to see
them you're gonna hear those comments
your reticular activating system will
begin paying attention to those things
if you believe however that they're all
terrible and abusing their employees
you're just gonna see that they yeah
it's very weird it's a fundamental thing
about the human condition you will see
what you look for so if you believe
they're a good competition gonna find
them so start with that believe that
they are out there and they are by the
way and if I had to do this I would
start somewhat with social media with
companies that are in the universe of
things that I care about so I'm gonna
find those and not just the executives
not the ones that are just pushing and
promoting their own company but who's
using the hashtags
at mentions that our employees you can
check out glass door but honestly like
you're gonna get some mixed results with
that because usually people are posting
because they're disgruntled it is very
hard speaking from experience to make
everybody happy so that can be a little
bit dicey word of mouth is massive but
finding a company that's really in
alignment with something you care about
in your own life and then engaging with
them and really trying to dig deep and
find people that work for them and see
what the cultures like go in and if
they're looking for anybody that fits
your description as an employee getting
interviews going in meeting people
asking like talk to the receptionist ask
them like what do they think what do
they feel get a vibe laughter is a
metric so in an interview just listen is
it quiet are people laughing what does
that look like that that's me makes a
big difference so yeah there you go
alright YouTube from Ghassan Salah what
beliefs were holding you back when you
started your journey for me in no
uncertain terms the thing that held me
back the most
I believed my talents and intelligence
were fixed traits and there was nothing
I could do about them and my life was
meant to be seeing how well I could
position myself to let my natural innate
talents shine so that is a devastating
mindset it's called the fixed mindset
read Carol Dweck's book mindset which
talks about the difference between a
fixed mindset and a growth mindset once
you believe a everything is my fault
and I can change anything about myself
at any time so I can get better at
something that I'm not good at if I'm
somebody who's easily frustrated I can
learn to not be easily frustrated if I'm
self-obsessed I can learn to think about
others like whatever it is no matter how
esoteric and soft the skill you can
develop it so yeah that that was a huge
game-changer and then the other one that
I'm on a personal mission to bring to
the world what you build your self
esteem around matters alright YouTube rs
TV what are the top three books you
would recommend for Millennials I
recommend the same books for hurry buddy
go to impact Theory calm Tom's reading
list the 25 books in order that I think
everybody should read if you want to
build a mindset that is going to set
you free and now this man who's just
off-camera has also created the
knowledge trail which is all the books
that I'm reading not all of them by the
way it applied to mindset but check it
out alright Facebook Jennifer Mason how
do you handle being the best you can be
in a world of men so this goes back to
that don't let yourself become cynical
answer that I was just giving to
somebody else really is important
regardless of what other people think if
you are focused on gratitude if you're
focused on things that make you smile
that leave you in awe like you want to
be tripped-out type in people of awe or
oh god what is it yeah it's something
like if you type in people people and
our people of our whatever it is into
YouTube you're gonna get this video
series they do it every year and it's
like humans doing the most unbelievably
cool stuff ever it's it's freakish
type-in Good Samaritan I mean there's
there's so many phrases you will get
whatever you look for so if you type in
words about somebody doing something
cool amazing kind sweet generous like
you will just get page after page after
page of this stuff so one thing that
here at impact Theory I'd like to see us
pull off I don't feel like I've totally
cracked in that which is I'm not overly
committing but I'd really really like to
see us do positive news now the reason
that news companies don't do that is
because it doesn't sell because it
doesn't trigger the amygdala and people
pay a lot more attention to things that
freak them out scare them and there's a
biological evolutionary reason for that
but I think that there is a lot of space
I think there's a growing movement of
people that are doing positive things so
if you look for it I assure you you're
gonna find it and you will find things
that leave you in straight-up aw ah this
world is full of just amazing [__]
alright
Facebook Jay Walker how do you suggest
woman's driving per for positions of
power go about it I'm a film commercial
director living in the Czech Republic
and it seems like every step I take
leads me to a man happy to take
advantage of the fact that I'm young and
hungry aside from being upfront about
ethical limitations do you have any
advice for women at
to achieve in this day and age okay so a
it's important for me to recognize my
limited ability to answer this question
because I have not lived through it so
I've never had to struggle with that so
I can only imagine that there is a
universe of problems that I am
blissfully ignorant to just because I
haven't had to deal with it
having said that none of that [__]
matters and even if the world is wildly
misogynistic the only question is
despite the misogyny how do you climb up
and the answer to that is universally
the same get so [__] good you can't
be ignored so look at hidden figures the
women were so good at math it didn't
matter a that they were female and it
really didn't matter that they were
african-americans so because they were
the ones that could do the math so when
you put yourself in a position where
you're just better than everybody while
you may be tempted to give in to the
frustration of how [__] obnoxious it
is do you have to work twice as hard as
everybody else it doesn't matter it is
what it is and so if you have to work
twice as hard to work twice as hard if
you have to get twice as good get twice
as good but that is the path right there
are two paths deal with the world the
way that it is deal with the world the
way that you wish it were I promise one
of these paths the one where you deal
with the world the way that actually is
leads to success dealing with the world
the way that you wish it were leads to
only frustration so accepting it pushing
getting that good is always going to be
the solution and here's the really hard
news if you're not getting where you
want it's because you're not good enough
and it may be that you're not good
enough at that skillset that craft and
it may be that you're not good enough at
navigating those interpersonal
relationships of how to keep that from
being a problem in your life being a
woman like you just have to own that you
have to make that your responsibility
there's just no way around it alright
YouTube scruffy 77 tips on focus I have
a very hard time focusing on one skill
set very bad ad D brain all right step
one no go back step one be very there
you go step one it's very bad to
reinforce in yourself do you have an ad
D brain when I
say things out loud about me that are
negative usually I follow them up
mentally silently with a repetition
three times of how I'm not gonna let
that hold me back or that it's you know
something that I can overcome
- you're gonna address this an identity
so I'm the type of person that despite
having a BD or whatever I force myself
to come back to focus so practice it
when you find yourself drifting bring
yourself back back back because I
promise a certain amount of the times
your lack of focus comes down to what
you're doing is boring it's not fully
capturing your attention and you can use
willpower to combat that so forcing
yourself to come back and then mentally
reward yourself whenever you get back on
track and you're doing the thing you're
supposed to be focusing on so that it
feels better and better to bring
yourself back to that task over and over
and over even when it's really boring
also having a compelling future and
knowing why you're doing that thing
acquiring the skill pushing that hard
whatever that is what's that adding up
to like why are you doing all of this so
once you know that then you can focus on
the excitement for instance on the days
that I really don't want to go to the
gym I focus on results so normally I
don't normally it's about the process
and all that but sometimes you just need
to think about how dope the six pack abs
are gonna be how amazing it is you're
gonna live forever like whatever that
thing is that is the result that you're
trying to get out of it that's real and
honest not the one that is politically
correct like I'll just tell you being
shredded is [__] rad and you feel
amazing about yourself and you think
you're a stud at every second you want
to walk by mirrors at all times like
lifting your shirt up and looking your
abs it's [__] rad so if that is truly
emotionally motivating for you own it I
find that most people this actually
isn't true for me I'm obsessed with
longevity living forever most people are
not so asking somebody to do something
for a slightly better blood test or to
live longer you're not gonna get much
but most people get pretty stoked when
their ass looks better so be honest with
yourself about what's motivating you let
that be an awesome motivator be stoked
about it
focus on that that'll help you get back
on task alright facebook alice but
spelled intriguing
Alysse maybe Elise Connors I am new to
the community and the growth mindset
welcome I would like to introduce us
thinking to my 11 and 9 year old what do
you think is the best way to explain it
and show them so the best way always in
forever to lead is to lead by example so
you want them to see you admitting when
you're wrong you want them to see you
fail and that you recognize how you
failed that you don't lose any optimism
you don't beat yourself up you're
excited to recognize that you were wrong
and when they see that like that's gonna
be infectious when you're like woah oh
my god I totally fail they can't believe
it but this is what I'm gonna try next
time or and I'm gonna work I'm gonna
push myself to get better they'll see
that and then also this is straight out
of mindset from Carol Dweck you want to
reward the process not the intelligence
so don't say oh my gosh you guys are so
smart you're so talented like amazing
that drawing is so great or getting an A
on that math test you're so clever don't
do that instead say whoa to get that
great you must have worked really hard
can only imagine how much you had to
study man that drawing that's really
incredible you've come a long way like
all that effort that you're putting into
it's really paying off so really making
sure that you frame it in a way that's
useful to them and then the most
important part is them seeing that
that's real for you alright YouTube cam
our what's the hardest part of initially
bringing an idea into action and
starting that business you've been
putting off starting all right watch
that clip where I told people if you
want to help starving children in Africa
to book your ticket for this weekend to
get to Africa like acting you have to
act like that is the most important
thing if you've been putting off
starting a company [__] start it
right now today and don't just give it a
name and like go try to register your
company [__] all that don't worry about
that go out make a product and start
selling it that matters
everything else is total [__] so
don't talk go do that that there's there
is no substitute everybody lean in real
close real close what you want to do is
take
that's it like that there's no [__]
secret just take action yes it's gonna
be embarrassing you're gonna do
something [__] stupid people are
going to laugh at you that is all true
you're going to lose some money that's
all true - it doesn't matter the lessons
that you will learn will be so [__]
powerful like if you want to get great
at basketball don't sit and watch the
NBA all day go grab a ball right like
kids is that not obvious go grab a ball
start playing if you want to start a
company
start the [__] company like you can
you can start today this is one of those
things that it is it is amazing it will
set you free
once you realize all you need to do is
take a sincere step every day towards
actually doing it it's gonna scare you
yes you're gonna be convinced you're
gonna fail yes and by the way you may
actually fail but you'll learn from that
so whatever the first one is don't worry
about that think about company ten how
do I get to company ten how do I get to
product ten okay I've got to burn
through the nine failures fantastic but
they're all playing in to that 10th one
but it's all about action the people
that act every day are the ones that are
pulling ahead
all right Facebook pretty a bhatia how
does one clear up miscommunication and
show the real picture okay so first
you've got to be clear on what the real
picture is and one thing I've found
incredibly useful in my life when I'm
processing out loud I tell people I'm
processing out loud we were just doing
this last night there was a bunch of us
sitting around the table tell super
[__] late by my standards and I was
just like guys I'm processing out loud
and thank you for being a part of this
and I really appreciate it and so there
was no misunderstanding that like I
don't know where I'm going with this I
just want to verbalize and then when I
know you just [__] get right to it
give the answer clarity clarity clarity
there's massive intoxication to clarity
when you can give something succinctly
you know exactly what you're talking
about so differentiating between the two
is super critical and when you have the
clarity walk through things step by step
brick by brick don't take anything for
granted which is something that I fall
prey to sometimes so you want to make
sure that you're laying those bricks
piece at a time so you need peace
information a so that you can understand
B's so you can understand C and just
walk people through it
alright YouTube Dark Knight hello Tom
hello right back
great username by the way I'm not sure
how you got that is there anything that
you can share about dealing with
stammering I'm a stutterer myself and
dealing with the same problem that every
stutterer does can it be treated
permanently so a I'm not a setter or so
I'm gonna tell you what I've learned
from other stutterers but know that this
is the tip - I'm sure a very big iceberg
but I'm excited about this because I met
somebody who they were amazing very
eloquent and they said that they were a
massive stutterer when they were a kid
and they said the key is much like
anxiety you so you get going in the
wrong direction right you get in this
downward spiral where you are worried
that you're gonna stutter which makes
you stutter more which creates this
downward spiral effect so how do you get
that going in the other direction I'm
gonna give you so one that's your task
right so we have to get now in a
virtuous cycle so what's gonna be the
thing that allows me to get there his
example was when he would get stuck on a
word he would use another word so for
him it was about having a diverse
vocabulary that led him whenever he
encountered a word he had another one
ready to go that he could just get out
without stuttering so that interesting
now going into some of the psychological
or sorry the kind of you know what words
used for this I want to say
neuroanatomical but it's actually not
that but the the mechanistic ways to go
about it
there are devices that you can get that
create a delay which is I don't
understand why this works but in
creating a delay it helps some people
get rid of their stutter so I would be
looking into that I would be typing into
YouTube getting over a stutter I would
be researching it online this almost
certainly there is a device or something
that is going to allow you to address
this so I'd go deep research research
research alright YouTube NYX hello I
don't know if I should continue chasing
my dreams and find new friends or try to
make a compromise with my old friends
say what if your friends are holding you
back like they got to go that got to Geo
you are the average of the five people
you spend the most time with go back
I've got to read that again like this
question is either
the most terrifying question of all time
I don't know if I should continue with
chasing my dreams or fight and find new
friends
or try to make a compromise mom I'm
admittedly reading into this but here's
what I hear your friends are somehow
heckling you stopping you slowing you
down from making your dreams come true
[__] that like you've got to be joking
they're not a friend if they're holding
you back wish them well meet them with
compassion empathy understanding all of
that like it's very heartbreaking and
sad that they're trapped in a place
where they aren't following their dreams
that they're trying to hold you back but
you've got to be [__] joking I would
let my own mother hold me back from my
dream so under no circumstance what
compromise would you make like that
you'll only strive to be so much that's
in [__] sanity thank you for sharing
I'm so grateful because you've been very
vulnerable but Jesus dear Lord you've
yeah next
all right Facebook Jacob Johnson Tom
what are your thoughts on the fine line
between being apologetic for something
that transpired in the past to weakness
that transpired in the past due to
weakness I think where does being
apologetic turn to being weak and
conceding I don't think it ever becomes
weakness I think weakness is its own
beast
if you [__] up own it own it
completely and totally and with out
reservation not like I'm sorry I made
you feel that way yeah yeah I [__] up
I totally messed up it is absolutely my
bad nobody owns that but me this is
entirely on me and I have to make
radical changes in order to be better
let me walk you through exactly what I'm
gonna do to make sure that I never let
you down in this way again right I don't
know what the exact case is that's not
weakness like if if you screwed up I so
aggressively take ownership for the
things that I do that half the time I
think people think I'm a little nuts
because I'm apologizing for things that
they don't think need to be apologized
for it because I'm apologizing because I
broke my own code so have a code that
you live by and when you fail that dude
[__] own it you will be shocked at
actually how powerful that makes you
seem to the other person because it's
like whoa this person does not try to
pass the buck they don't
push blame on anybody else like they own
it and also doing that because it
shouldn't just be words like you should
really be owning it you will grow more
powerful by the day there's absolutely
nothing weakness in that all right
Facebook
Jumaane Saab lund Cabrera I don't think
we've ever seen your middle name before
it's your money but welcome how do you
push yourself to doing something that
scares you I live my entire life just to
this side of panic so for me do and
believe that which moves you towards
your goals that's it so I don't trust
fear I don't believe in fear I get it I
know what it is it's my subconscious
communicating to my conscious mind fair
enough but that doesn't mean that I have
to give in to it
so courage is about acting in the face
of fear not the absence of fear so
because I want to be courageous in my
life I'm always forcing myself to do
things so what I do is say what is my
goal and then I build in mechanisms that
I can't back away from I'll commit to a
speech that I know like it would be more
embarrassing to back out of then go
through with so putting myself
constantly in positions like a total
confession time we're building a set
that we can spend a lot of money on to
do a new show I have no idea what the
[__] show is gonna be but I better
figure it out because that set is
getting built the money is getting spent
and so doing that forces me to not be
paralyzed by fear I've got to overcome
that also and this is big for me I want
to free people from the matrix whenever
I think about making money then like I
get fearful because it's like well do I
really want to risk money to make more
money like ah but when I think about
actually helping somebody and pulling
them out of the matrix and then then
living a better life than they would
have for not encountering these ideas
that gets really easy - for me to be of
service to other people kills my fear so
that's a big one like when I actually
think this is gonna help somebody it
gets very easy to push and push and push
alright YouTube Tyler wall Tom long time
fan Thank You first-time caller
very funny what three things would you
tell your hypothetical kids about life
in order for them to succeed
alright I'm gonna buy myself a little
bit of time I'm gonna take a drink
all right one they have to understand
the difference between a fixed mindset
and a growth mindset so you can do
anything you set your mind to without
limitation - you have to work your ass
off to get there like literally break
yourself in half
you have to work long hard and smart to
go all out for decades and decades and
decades as if it was all gonna happen
overnight like that's how hard you have
to be going all day every day for a very
long time make sure that you develop
your passions that's three so
technically I'm off the hook but I'm
gonna give you a fourth what you build
yourself a seam around matters those be
my top four all right YouTube qcn how do
you know which philosophy is right for
you that is insanely broad like we talk
if we're talking about like philosophers
I can't even begin to answer that if
we're talking about like what's the code
the belief system that kind of thing I
actually think is pretty universal there
there just are certain beliefs based on
the human animal there's certain things
you need to believe and do in order to
maximize your ability to express your
potential so if you're looking for what
those are what I believe to be the
universal belief system go to impact
Theory calm and download our belief
system 25-point belief system which you
can get to by signing up I believe it's
in the right hand rail how do people
even use that term anymore the right
hand rail that is a flashback to my days
as a full-time web marketer alright
YouTube ken Roy Davis what advice would
you give young college graduate who
wants to become an entrepreneur is it
feasible and how likely are they to
succeed how this is really interesting
so is it feasible of course new
companies are started every day how
likely are they to succeed you have to
put that question out of your mind so
don't even be thinking about that
believe in what you're trying to build
and know that either in fact here's a
quote that the actual quote is don't try
to change the world unless you seek it
like a man whose head is on fire seeks a
pond so don't become an entrepreneur
unless you want to bring that product to
market like your head is on fire
right like you would seek a pond if your
head was on fire hopefully you get where
I'm going with that that is like it's
got to be burning inside you it's got to
be something that you literally can't
stop yourself from doing that you wake
up that you're thinking about it all the
time like literally I couldn't stop
myself from doing impact Theory you have
no idea how true that statement is I
could not stop myself from doing impact
Theory it is like the most true thing in
my soul like it just had to be it's what
I think about it's what I talk about
it's what I want to do I would be doing
it whether I was making money at it or
not in fact I'm losing money hand over
fist doing this so if you want to know
how true that is
like that's to me where an entrepreneur
should start it should be something that
you really really want to make happen
all right so don't worry about whether
you're gonna succeed or fail you're
gonna fail a whole lot before you
succeed it just is what it is doesn't
really matter just get through those the
failures are the lessons there's such
powerful teachers alright YouTube max
hashtag that actually part of his
username max hashtag alright about it
what are your thoughts of the education
system I don't have a lot thankfully I
don't have kids so I don't really have
to think about it but I'll give you just
a few off the cuff I think problem
solving is a lot more useful than rote
memorization I think that the ability to
find facts is very easy in today's world
so unless we're teaching people how to
research unless we're teaching people
the process of learning if we're
teaching them how to overcome obstacles
if we're giving them what will code
named entrepreneurial mindset tactics
general mindset teaching the growth
mindset all of that like that would be
insanely useful but the specific way
that we teach writing reading rithmetic
it seems broken I'm not the man to solve
it I don't have the interest in that to
deal with fixing systems hopefully
somebody will reinvent it entirely from
the outside I think that's really going
to be the answer I think there are
certain things you still need a higher
level degree for being a doctor for
instance but hey ask yourself how AI is
gonna disrupt that before you commit
that kind of time and energy too but
there are definitely certain things
you're gonna need a degree for
everything else just decide what you
want to get
and go get good at it there is so much
information online I was just riffing on
this with Michelle I don't know if she's
here but I was freaking out about this
last night you can right now I think
it's called lecture Rio I'm almost
certain that's true luxury Oh does
medical grade like medical school grade
lectures for anybody that wants to take
the course they're dirt cheap you can
take courses at MIT right now you can go
to Khan Academy I mean so much of the
stuff is free it's in sanity so anything
you want to learn you can you just have
to have the discipline if however you
don't have discipline you may want to
put yourself to Jewish traditional
school I'm very glad I did because when
I went to college originally I did not
have discipline all right
YouTube Mike kneeled Tom have you ran
any ultra marathons no and I have zero
intention of doing so
YouTube Christoph Jelinski hi Tom I'm a
magician what is up dude I'm all about
magic
I am absolutely obsessed I've taken
classes at the Magic Castle to just nod
to have true that is I know that you
enjoy magic and I'd like to hear why
okay so magic is all about the
psychology it's about being able to
control people's attention it's about
wonderment it's about oh like part of it
is it's so [__] cool like how is not
everybody into magic I'll never
understand there are two types of people
in the world type one when you learn how
the trick is done you weep because all
the magic is gone type two when you
learn how the magic is done and you
realize that it is just an ungodly
amount of time energy and practice that
went into making it look effortless you
are more in awe than ever like I fall
into that second camp so when I realize
how much time goes into practicing a
simple sleight of hand it it's
unimaginable it is unimaginable but it's
so cool so I love that hard work really
excites me so when I see that something
that has such a profound impact on
people's neuro chemistry where they
would rather believe that you can
actually bend the laws of physics and
believe that you spent that much time
working at it it's just amazing alright
YouTube that damn scale it is
fascinating how much people can reveal
in a username how do you know if you
should keep to businesses separate or
combine them if they're resonant and
they feed into each other then I think
that bringing them together makes a
whole lot of sense but if they don't my
honest answer is you should probably get
rid of one unless it doesn't take any of
your time so I'm hunted by a line from
Ryan holidays book perennial seller
where he talks about where people really
get themselves into troubles where they
try to do multiple things at the same
time that don't benefit each other so
beware beware beware of that mistake all
right Facebook Gemini Cruise Tom what
would you recommend people do once they
escape the matrix make all of your
dreams come true there's no longer
anything holding you back that it Wow we
made it to the end that is unbelievable
that's what happens when you do rapid
fire my friends how much time do we have
oh really Jesus talk about timing well
guys thank you so so much
I really really appreciate you guys
joining us building this community is my
absolute obsession and doing it in a way
that is value-add and helping people is
truly my life's mission so thank you
guys so very much we're gonna be
launching a new show and about a month
so I'm very excited to have you guys on
this journey with us we'll be talking
more about that as we get closer to it
if this added value please do share this
and this is a weekly show so if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
and enjoy your holiday weekend by the
way peace out
[Music]